docs: create use-case for integration with Flux (#3380)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: docs/docs/use-cases/flux.md

---
comments: true
---

# Deploying Applications with Flux and Keptn

> Flux is a tool that keeps Kubernetes clusters synchronized with sources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Flux](https://justgetflux.com/)
is a tool that keeps Kubernetes clusters synchronized with sources
```

of configuration (such as Git repositories) and automates updates to

> configuration when new code is deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the configuration when new code is deployed.
```

> This section shows how to add Keptn to an existing Flux use case that runs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section shows how to add Keptn pre- and post-deploymnt tasks to an existing Flux use case that runs
```

> [pre and post-deployment jobs with Flux](https://fluxcd.io/flux/use-cases/running-jobs/)
> to make it simpler and more straight-forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[pre and post-deployment jobs with Flux](https://fluxcd.io/flux/use-cases/running-jobs/).
Adding Keptn makes it simpler and more straight-forward
to run the Flux pre and post-deployment jobs
and provides added observability out of the box.
```
We need more information about why one needs both Flux pre/post deployment jobs and Keptn pre/post-deployment tasks and what the relationship is between them.  Maybe some examples of the observability information one gets by implementing Keptn?  And perhaps a quick statement about the difference between Flux jobs and Keptn tasks?  No Keptn evaluations here, right?

## High-level structure of the Git repository

> Since Flux uses a GitOps approach for continuous delivery, the Git
> repository structure for our use case looks like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flux uses a GitOps approach for continuous delivery.
The Git
repository structure for our use case looks like the following:
```

```markdown
├── apps
│   └── dev
│       ├── podtato-head.yaml
│       └── kustomize.yaml
└── clusters
    └── dev
        ├── flux-system
        │   ├── gotk-components.yaml
        │   ├── gotk-sync.yaml
        │   └── kustomize.yaml
        ├── podtato-head-source.yaml
        └── podtato-head-kustomization.yaml

> ```

Reviewer: If I am already running Flux, is this what I have set up or is it different.  I looked at the doc you linked about Flux pre and post deployment jobs and it doesn't look like this -- but perhaps that is my ignorance.

Author: That's the point of this guide, with Keptn you do not need to set up pre and post deployment directories in the git repo, because Keptn has a mechanism how to run pre/post-deployment tasks -> with Keptn it's easier to configure

Reviewer: Okay, I took a crack at adding this -- see if I got it right.

Author: yep, accepted!

The `apps` directory contains application manifests, that will be deployed.
The `clusters` directory contains Flux configuration manifests and custom
resources, that are needed for the delivery.

> `apps` and `clusters` directories can live in two separate repositories,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `apps` and `clusters` directories can live in two separate repositories,
```

but for simplicity of this excercise, we will keep them in a single one.

## Set up your environment

> Before we start, you need to install Flux CLI and Keptn.

Author: Flux CLI - local machine
Keptn - cluster

and with bootstrapping, Flux is automatically installed in cluster, but that's in Flux docs

You can find the installation instructions for Keptn [here](../installation/index.md)
and for Flux [here](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/).

After successfully installing Flux CLI and Keptn, you need to
retrieve your Git repository credentials.
You can use any available Git providers, but be sure to store your `token`
for later usage.
For simplicity, we will use GitHub.

You also need to install Flux in your cluster.
This requires
[bootstrapping the git repository](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/bootstrap/)
to set up all necessary Flux structures in the repository.
Use the following command to do this:

```shell
GITHUB_USER=<user-name> GITHUB_TOKEN=<token> \
flux bootstrap github \
  --owner=$GITHUB_USER \
  --repository=podtato-head \
  --branch=main \
  --path=./clusters/dev \
  --personal
```

The bootstrap command above does the following:

* Creates a Git repository `podtato-head` on your GitHub account.

> * Adds Flux component manifests to the repository -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds Flux component manifests to the repository and
```

creates `./clusters/dev/flux-system/*` structure.
* Deploys Flux components to your Kubernetes Cluster.
* Configures Flux components to track the path `./clusters/dev/` in the repository.

## Creating the application

> Now it's time to add the application together with pre- and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now it's time to add the application together with Keptn pre- and
```

post-deployment checks to the repository.

First, clone the `podtato-head` repository to your local machine.

Add the following manifests that represent the application into the  `podtato-head.yaml` file
and store it in the `./apps/dev/` directory of your repository:

```yaml
{% include "./assets/flux/app.yaml" %}
```

> 

Reviewer: Would it be useful to say a little more about this manifest.  For example:

This manifest defines the following Kubernetes and Keptn resources:

- Kubernetes
    - Namespace -- enables Keptn for this namespace
    = Deployment - defines labels and annotations that integrate Keptn with the deployment
- Keptn
     - KeptnAppContext -- lists the pre- and post-deployment tasks to run.  In this case, we have just one pre-deployment task -- hello-task -- to run
     - KeptnTaskDefinition -- defines the executable code for the `hello-task` task.

Something like that.  If you like the idea, I'll code up the links to the k8s and Keptn doc for each resource and work a little harder on the descriptions.

Author: Is it actually needed? The resources are completely standard and explained in other guides/ places in our docs. I would rather keep it simple and straight-forward.

Reviewer: Yes, it's a question of whether we force the reader to go digging for the information or give them a link so they easily find the relevant info.   But this is you call.  You can just resolve this issue if you don't want the list-with-links -- that's why I didn't bother to do the coding ;-)

Reviewer 2: I would rather refer to the guide on deploying a keptn app to help user here, instead of explaining in details the basics... IMO flux is not a beginner tool so the risk is making the page unreadable for those who know what they are doing...

Reviewer: It looks like Ondrej accepted my suggestion to include a link to the CRD Ref pages and "Basic annotations".  I'm marking this as resolved.

Additionally, create a `kustomize.yaml` file right next to it:

```yaml
{% include "./assets/flux/kustomize.yaml" %}
```

You can commit and push these manifests to the Git repository.

The application has Keptn pre- and post-deployment tasks defined
in the manifests.
This enhances the
[Flux pre and post-deployment jobs](https://fluxcd.io/flux/use-cases/running-jobs/)
setup with added observability out of the box.

## Set up continuous delivery for the application

First, we need to create a Flux
[GitRepository](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/source/gitrepositories/)
resource
pointing to a repository where the application manifests are present.
In this case, it will be our `podtato-head` repository.
To create this resource, we use Flux CLI:

```shell
flux create source git podtato-head \
  --url=<git-repo-url> \
  --branch=main \
  --interval=1m \
  --export > ./clusters/dev/podtato-head-source.yaml
```

> which results in output similar to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This results in output similar to:
```

```yaml
{% include "./assets/flux/gitrepository.yaml" %}
```

In the last step, create a Flux
[Kustomization](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/kustomize/kustomizations/)
resource to deploy the `podtato-head` application to the cluster.
You can create it using the Flux CLI:

```shell
flux create kustomization podtato-head \
  --target-namespace=podtato-kubectl \
  --source=podtato-head \
  --path="./apps/dev" \
  --prune=true \
  --wait=true \
  --interval=30m \
  --retry-interval=2m \
  --health-check-timeout=3m \
  --export > ./clusters/dev/podtato-head-kustomization.yaml
```

which results in output similar to:

```yaml
{% include "./assets/flux/flux-kustomization.yaml" %}
```

> Now, commit and push the resources you created in the recent steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, commit and push the resources you created in the previous steps.
```

of configuration (such as Git repositories) and automate updates to
configuration when new code is deployed.

This section shows how to add Keptn to an existing Flux use case that runs
[pre and post-deployment jobs with Flux](https://fluxcd.io/flux/use-cases/running-jobs/)
to make it simpler and and more straight-forward.

## High-level structure of the git repository

Since Flux uses a GitOps approach for continuous delivery, the git
repository structure for our use case looks like the following:

```markdown
├── apps
│   └── dev
│       ├── podtato-head.yaml
│       └── kustomize.yaml
└── clusters
    └── dev
        ├── flux-system
        │   ├── gotk-components.yaml
        │   ├── gotk-sync.yaml
        │   └── kustomize.yaml
        ├── podtato-head-source.yaml
        └── podtato-head-kustomization.yaml
```

The `apps` directory contains application manifests, that will be deployed.
The `clusters` directory contains Flux configuration manifests and custom
resources, that are needed for the delivery.
`apps` and `clusters` directories can live in two separate repositories,
but for simplicity of this excercise, we will keep them in a single one.

> ## Set up environment

Author: ```suggestion
## Set up your environment
```

Use the following command to do this:

```bash
GITHUB_USER=<user-name> GITHUB_TOKEN=<token> \
flux bootstrap github \
  --owner=$GITHUB_USER \
  --repository=podtato-head \
  --branch=main \
  --path=./clusters/dev \
  --personal
```

The bootstrap command above does the following:

* Creates a git repository `podtato-head` on your `GitHub` account.
* Adds Flux component manifests to the repository -
creates `./clusters/dev/flux-system/*` structure.
* Deploys Flux components to your Kubernetes Cluster.
* Configures Flux components to track the path `./clusters/dev/` in the repository.

## Creating application

Now it's time to add the application together with pre- and
post-deployments checks to the repository.

Firstly, clone the `podtato-head` repository to your local machine.

Add the following manifests that represent the application into the  `podtato-head.yaml` file
and store it in the `./apps/dev/` directory of your repository:

```yaml
{% include "./assets/flux/app.yaml" %}
```

Additionally, create a `kustomize.yaml` file right next to it:

```yaml
{% include "./assets/flux/kustomize.yaml" %}
```

You can commit and push these manifests to the Git repository.

> > **Note**

Author: ```suggestion
```

The application has Keptn pre- and post-deployment tasks defined
in the manifests.
This enhances the
[Flux pre and post-deployment jobs](https://fluxcd.io/flux/use-cases/running-jobs/)
setup with added observability out of the box.

## Set up continuous delivery for the application

> Firstly, we need to create a Flux

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, we need to create a Flux
```

[GitRepository](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/source/gitrepositories/)
resource
pointing to a repository where the application manifests are present.
In this case, it will be our `podtato-head` repository.
To create this resource, we use Flux CLI:

> ```bash

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```shell
```

flux create source git podtato-head \
  --url=<git-repo-url> \
  --branch=main \
  --interval=1m \
  --export > ./clusters/dev/podtato-head-source.yaml
```

which results in output similar to:

```yaml
{% include "./assets/flux/gitrepository.yaml" %}
```

In the last step, create a Flux
[Kustomization](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/kustomize/kustomizations/)
resource to deploy the `podtato-head` application to the cluster.
You can create it using the Flux CLI:

> ```bash

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```shell
```

flux create kustomization podtato-head \
  --target-namespace=podtato-kubectl \
  --source=podtato-head \
  --path="./apps/dev" \
  --prune=true \
  --wait=true \
  --interval=30m \
  --retry-interval=2m \
  --health-check-timeout=3m \
  --export > ./clusters/dev/podtato-head-kustomization.yaml
```

which results in output similar to:

```yaml
{% include "./assets/flux/flux-kustomization.yaml" %}
```

> Now commit and push the resources you created in the recent steps.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, commit and push the resources you created in the recent steps.
```

After pushing them, Flux picks up the configuration and

> deploys your application into the cluster.

Reviewer 3: the above commands could be used directly in an imperative way to let flux push to the repo as opposed to the user running the commands and then having to push manually to the repo.

i guess the commands here are similar to `kubectl apply --dry-run -oyaml > file`

Author: Yes I knew about this, but I would prefer (for a beginner user who does not know Flux CLI) to see what exactly is created by the command and then push the resources. I am in favor in more verbose approach than to skip steps (even though automatically)

But if you think it's better that way, I guess we can change it

Reviewer 3: i agree with you. the only alternative would have been to just have the bootstrap command and then do the rest if full gitops fashion by just telling people to create things in the repo. but i think this approach is fine.

Reviewer: Since this is a guide, what about adding a Note block that says "The previous commands can instead be used directly in an imperative way... [exactly what Mo wrote above] and then show the commands?

## Watch Flux sync of the application

You can watch the synchronization of the application
using the Flux CLI:

> ```bash

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```shell
```

$ flux get kustomizations --watch

NAME          REVISION             SUSPENDED  READY   MESSAGE
flux-system   main@sha1:4e9c917f   False      True    Applied revision: main@sha1:4e9c917f
podtato-head  main@sha1:44154333   False      True    Applied revision: main@sha1:44154333

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

```

or using `kubectl`:

```shell
$ kubectl get keptnappversion -n podtato-head

NAME                           APPNAME        VERSION   PHASE
podtato-head-v0.1.0-6b86b273   podtato-head   v0.1.0    Completed
```

Each time you update the application, the changes are
synced to the cluster.

## Possible follow-ups

> You can also set up a multi-stage delivery with Flux,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can also set up multi-stage delivery with Flux,
```

---
comments: true
---

> # Deploying Applications with Flux

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Deploying Applications with Flux and Keptn
```

> Flux is a tool for keeping Kubernetes clusters in sync with sources
> of configuration (like Git repositories), and automating updates to
> configuration when there is new code to deploy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flux is a tool that keeps Kubernetes clusters synchronized with sources
of configuration (such as Git repositories) and automate updates to
configuration when new code is deployed.
```

> This section shows an already existing Flux use case of running
> [pre and post-deployment jobs with Flux](https://fluxcd.io/flux/use-cases/running-jobs/)
> and how Keptn makes it simpler and and more straight-forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section shows how to add Keptn to an existing Flux use case that runs
[pre and post-deployment jobs with Flux](https://fluxcd.io/flux/use-cases/running-jobs/)
to make it simpler and and more straight-forward.
```

## High-level structure of the git repository

> Since Flux uses a GitOps approach for continuous delivery, the git
> repository structure, for our use case, will look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Flux uses a GitOps approach for continuous delivery, the git
repository structure for our use case looks like the following:
```

```markdown
├── apps
│   └── dev
│       ├── podtato-head.yaml
│       └── kustomize.yaml
└── clusters
    └── dev
        ├── flux-system
        │   ├── gotk-components.yaml
        │   ├── gotk-sync.yaml
        │   └── kustomize.yaml
        ├── podtato-head-source.yaml
        └── podtato-head-kustomization.yaml
```

The `apps` directory contains application manifests, that will be deployed.
The `clusters` directory contains Flux configuration manifests and custom
resources, that are needed for the delivery.
`apps` and `clusters` directories can live in two separate repositories,
but for simplicity of this excercise, we will keep them in a single one.

## Set up environment

Before we start, you need to install Flux CLI and Keptn.

> You can find the installation instructions of Keptn [here](./../installation/index.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the installation instructions for Keptn [here](./../installation/index.md)
```

and for Flux [here](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/).

After successfully installing Flux CLI and Keptn, you need to

> retrieve your git repository credentials.
> You can use any available git providers, but be sure to store your `token`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
retrieve your Git repository credentials.
You can use any available Git providers, but be sure to store your `token`
```

for later usage.
For simplicity, we will use `GitHub`.

> As another step, you need to install Flux to your cluster.
> This step will require
> [bootstrapping the git repository](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/bootstrap/)
> in order to set up all needed Flux structures in the repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You also need to install Flux in your cluster.
This requires
[bootstrapping the git repository](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/bootstrap/)
to set up all necessary Flux structures in the repository.
```

> For that, you can use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following command to do this:
```

```bash
GITHUB_USER=<user-name> GITHUB_TOKEN=<token> \
flux bootstrap github \
  --owner=$GITHUB_USER \
  --repository=podtato-head \
  --branch=main \
  --path=./clusters/dev \
  --personal
```

The bootstrap command above does the following:

* Creates a git repository `podtato-head` on your `GitHub` account.
* Adds Flux component manifests to the repository -
creates `./clusters/dev/flux-system/*` structure.
* Deploys Flux Components to your Kubernetes Cluster.
* Configures Flux components to track the path `./clusters/dev/` in the repository.

## Creating application

Now it's time to add the application together with pre- and
post-deployments checks to the repository.

Firstly, clone the `podtato-head` repository to your local machine.

> Add the following manifests into `podtato-head.yaml` representing the application
> and store it into `./apps/dev/` directory of your repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following manifests that represent the application into the  `podtato-head.yaml` file
and store it in the `./apps/dev/` directory of your repository:
```

```yaml
{% include "./assets/flux/app.yaml" %}
```

> Additionally, create a `kustomize.yaml` file right next to it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, create a `kustomize.yaml` file right next to the `app.yaml` file:
```
or maybe "in the same directory as the `app.yaml` file:"?  Just saying "right next to it" is a little vague.

```yaml
{% include "./assets/flux/kustomize.yaml" %}
```

> You can commit and push these manifests to the git repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can commit and push these manifests to the Git repository.
```

> **Note**

> Notice, that the application has pre- and post-deployment tasks defined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application has Keptn pre- and post-deployment tasks defined
```

in the manifests.
This enhances the
[Flux pre and post-deployment jobs](https://fluxcd.io/flux/use-cases/running-jobs/)
setup with added observability out of the box.

## Set up continuous delivery for the application

> Firstly, we need to create a
> [GitRepository](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/source/gitrepositories/)
> Flux custom resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firstly, we need to create a Flux
[GitRepository](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/source/gitrepositories/)
resource
```
You argued persuasively that we should just call these "resources" rather than "custom" resources for Keptn so I'm thinking the same standard applies to Flux resources.

pointing to a repository where the application manifests are present.
In this case, it will be our `podtato-head` repository.

> To create it, we will use Flux CLI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create this resource, we use Flux CLI:
```

```bash
flux create source git podtato-head \
  --url=<git-repo-url> \
  --branch=main \
  --interval=1m \
  --export > ./clusters/dev/podtato-head-source.yaml
```

> which results in an output similar to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which results in output similar to:
```

```yaml
{% include "./assets/flux/gitrepository.yaml" %}
```

> In the last step, create a
> [Kustomization](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/kustomize/kustomizations/)
> Flux custom resource to deploy the `podtato-head` application to the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the last step, create a Flux
[Kustomization](https://fluxcd.io/flux/components/kustomize/kustomizations/)
resource to deploy the `podtato-head` application to the cluster.
```

You can create it using the Flux CLI:

```bash
flux create kustomization podtato-head \
  --target-namespace=podtato-kubectl \
  --source=podtato-head \
  --path="./apps/dev" \
  --prune=true \
  --wait=true \
  --interval=30m \
  --retry-interval=2m \
  --health-check-timeout=3m \
  --export > ./clusters/dev/podtato-head-kustomization.yaml
```

> which results in an output similar to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which results in output similar to:
```

```yaml
{% include "./assets/flux/flux-kustomization.yaml" %}
```

Now commit and push the resources you created in the recent steps.
After pushing them, Flux picks up the configuration and
deploys your application into the cluster.

## Watch Flux sync of the application

> You can watch the synchronization of the application
> with Flux CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can watch the synchronization of the application
using the Flux CLI:
```

```bash
$ flux get kustomizations --watch

NAME          REVISION             SUSPENDED  READY   MESSAGE
flux-system   main@sha1:4e9c917f   False      True    Applied revision: main@sha1:4e9c917f
podtato-head  main@sha1:44154333   False      True    Applied revision: main@sha1:44154333

```

or using `kubectl`:

```shell
$ kubectl get keptnappversion -n podtato-head

NAME                           APPNAME        VERSION   PHASE
podtato-head-v0.1.0-6b86b273   podtato-head   v0.1.0    Completed
```

> Every time you update the application, the changes will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each time you update the application, the changes are
```

synced to the cluster.

## Possible follow-ups

> You can also set up a multi-stage delivery with Flux, same
> as it was done with `ArgoCD`.
> You can follow the steps of the
> [ArgoCD multi-stage delivery with Keptn](../guides/multi-stage-application-delivery.md)
> user guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also set up a multi-stage delivery with Flux,
following the steps described for `ArgoCD` in the
[ArgoCD multi-stage delivery with Keptn](../guides/multi-stage-application-delivery.md)
user guide.
```

---
comments: true
---

# Deploying Applications with Flux and Keptn

[Flux](https://fluxcd.io/)
is a tool that keeps Kubernetes clusters synchronized with sources
of configuration (such as Git repositories) and automates updates to
the configuration when new code is deployed.

This section shows how to add Keptn

> [pre- and post-deploymnt tasks](../guides/tasks.md)

Author: ```suggestion
[pre- and post-deployment tasks](../guides/tasks.md)
```

to an existing Flux use case that runs
[pre and post-deployment jobs with Flux](https://fluxcd.io/flux/use-cases/running-jobs/).
Adding Keptn makes it simpler and more straight-forward
to run the Flux pre and post-deployment jobs
and provides added observability out of the box.

## High-level structure of the Git repository

Flux uses a GitOps approach for continuous delivery.
The Git
repository structure for our use case looks like the following:

```markdown
├── apps
│   └── dev
│       ├── podtato-head.yaml
│       └── kustomize.yaml
└── clusters
    └── dev
        ├── flux-system
        │   ├── gotk-components.yaml
        │   ├── gotk-sync.yaml
        │   └── kustomize.yaml
        ├── podtato-head-source.yaml
        └── podtato-head-kustomization.yaml
```

The `apps` directory contains application manifests, that will be deployed.
The `clusters` directory contains Flux configuration manifests and custom
resources, that are needed for the delivery.
The `apps` and `clusters` directories can live in two separate repositories,
but for simplicity of this excercise, we will keep them in a single one.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You see that the Keptn application runs any pre/post-deployment tasks
rather than using the Flux `pre-deploy` and `post-deploy` directories in the Git repository.
The Keptn process is easier to implement
and contains more information than the Flux jobs do.

```

## Set up your environment

> Before we start, you need to install Flux CLI and Keptn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we start, you need to install Flux CLI on your local machine and Keptn on your cluster.
```

You can find the installation instructions for Keptn [here](../installation/index.md)
and for Flux [here](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/).

After successfully installing Flux CLI and Keptn, you need to
retrieve your Git repository credentials.
You can use any available Git providers, but be sure to store your `token`
for later usage.
For simplicity, we will use GitHub.

> You also need to install Flux in your cluster.
> This requires
> [bootstrapping the Git repository](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/bootstrap/)
> to set up all necessary Flux structures in the repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You then need to
[bootstrap the Git repository](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/bootstrap/)
to install Flux in your cluster.
This sets up all necessary Flux structures in the repository.
```

Use the following command to do this:

```shell
GITHUB_USER=<user-name> GITHUB_TOKEN=<token> \
flux bootstrap github \
  --owner=$GITHUB_USER \
  --repository=podtato-head \
  --branch=main \
  --path=./clusters/dev \
  --personal
```

The bootstrap command above does the following:

* Creates a Git repository `podtato-head` on your GitHub account.
* Adds Flux component manifests to the repository and
creates `./clusters/dev/flux-system/*` structure.
* Deploys Flux components to your Kubernetes Cluster.
* Configures Flux components to track the path `./clusters/dev/` in the repository.

## Creating the application

Now it's time to add the Keptn application that defines the Keptn pre- and
post-deployment checks to the repository.

First, clone the `podtato-head` repository to your local machine.

Add the following manifests that represent the application into the  `podtato-head.yaml` file
and store it in the `./apps/dev/` directory of your repository:

```yaml
{% include "./assets/flux/app.yaml" %}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

See the Keptn
[CRD reference](../reference/crd-reference/index.md)
documentation for more information about the Keptn resources that are used.
See
[Basic annotations](../guides/integrate.md#basic-annotations)
for a description of the labels and annotations that Keptn uses.
```
How is this for a lightweight way to help the reader find the relevant docs?  You do link to the Flux Kustomize page, etc.  Just a thought -- dismiss if you don't agree.
